Intent2.0 (#1)
IntentSoftware/Docs: articles/references/module_builder.md

---
uid: ModuleBuilder
---
# Module Builder

The Module Builder is one of the powerful features of Intent Architect which allows a developer to craft their own code-generation module. This will allow a developer to generate custom defined code at the click of a button once that module is installed (while its being Intent Architect Managed). Think of the power!

Generally to write your own Module required that you had to put up a lot of code to create a Template and the like, but the Module Builder takes care of that by modeling a Module the same way you would model your own application. Think of all the other possibilities of using Intent Architect!

> Please visit the Tutorial section to see how to work with the [Module Builder](xref:TutorialCreateModule).

Author: ```suggestion
The Module Builder is a powerful feature of Intent Architect that allows you easily craft your own code-generation module.

In the same way that Intent Architect can automate the boiler plate and plumbing code of your application, the Module Builder does the same for creating modules. It does all the configuration so you can get on with the interesting work of writing the actual module logic which is specific to your goal.

For an example of the Module Builder in action, you can refer to the [](xref:TutorialCreateModule) article.
```

>[!NOTE]

> >The scope of this article is to explain the concepts found in the Module Builder. If you wish to find out more about Modules or Templates themselves, please navigate to the relevant section on the panel to the left.

Author: ```suggestion
>The scope of this article is to explain the concepts found in the Module Builder. If you wish to find out more about Modules or Templates themselves, please navigate to the relevant section on the side panel.
```

## Breakdown

![Module Builder Components](images/ModuleBuilderComponentBreakdown.png)
_Module Builder Components_

> For the purposes of this document, we will only stick to the following components below. For information on the rest of the components outlined in the image above, please visit the [Intent Architect Concepts](xref:IntentArchitectConcepts) page.

Author: ```suggestion
This article only describes components which are specific to the _Module Builder_. For information on the rest of the components outlined in the image above, please refer to the [](xref:IntentArchitectConcepts) article.
```

### File Template
Creates a Template class that will allow you to generate a text file for any type of text content (including any programming language).

### C# Template

> Since Intent Architect supports intelligent weaving in C# files, it will create a template that will set this up for you. It is recommended to use this type of template for all C# classes as the [weaving](xref:RoslynWeaver) systems allow user-managed code to co-exist with Intent-managed code within the same file.

Author: ```suggestion
Creates a template which has Intent Architect' powerful, unobtrusive and intuitive C# code weaving enabled on it. This template type is recommended for all C# classes as the [](xref:RoslynWeaver) systems allow user-managed code to co-exist painlessly with Intent-managed code within the same file.
```

### Template Decorator

> Creates a Decorator class that you can use to add content to an existing template by hooking into its extensibility points. Think of this as a Object Oriented Class that extends an Abstract class and has to implement all the virtual / abstract methods but in a Template sense.

Author: ```suggestion
Creates a Decorator class that can be use to add content to an existing template by hooking into its extensibility points. View the [](xref:Decorators) article for more information on Decorators.
```

I made this link up, if we don't have an article, then we need to make one.

### Modeler

> If you need to fetch meta-data from a modeler that is other than `Domain` or `Services`, you need to add it here with the appropriate name so that your template can reference it. See [below](#modeler).

Author: ```suggestion
Creates an element which represents a "reference" to a modeler. These references are needed if you are going to use meta-data from a custom modeler that is other than the `Domain` or `Services` modeler. See [below](#modeler).
```

Question, if one puts `[](#modeler)` does it pick up the heading name as the link title? If so then we could rather do:
```suggestion
Creates an element which represents a "reference" to a modeler. These references are needed if you are going to use meta-data from a custom modeler that is other than the `Domain` or `Services` modeler. See [](#modeler) below.
```

We should have a modeler article somewhere, if we don't already, then lets make an issue to get one made.

### Type
Consider that a given Template uses some element (or list of elements) to generate content into a file. This element Type can be specified by creating a Type that can be described in C# (or other language) namespace and type names.
See [below](#model-type) for more info.

> 

Author: I don't feel this should start with `Consider that...`, similar to the style above, it could start with something like `This creates...`

## Template Settings

> Notice that when you click on a Template element in Intent Architect, that it will display these fields:

Author: ```suggestion
By default, the `Template Settings` [stereotype](xref:Stereotypes) is added to all templates created in the Module Builder. When clicking on a template you can change the properties of the stereotype.
```

The xref needs to be checked, I just put anything in here.

![Template Element](images/TemplateElement.png)
_Template Element_

![Template Settings](images/TemplateSettings.png)
_Template Settings_

### Creation Mode
The `Creation Mode` setting of a template determines what metadata format the template expects, and how files from a template must be created:
1.	**Single File (No Model)** – create a single file without any additional metadata needed. A standalone C# class or ReadMe file would be examples of this template setting. 
2.	**Single File (Model List)** – create a single file which takes in a list of metadata models. This is useful for creating classes which register other classes.
3.	**File per Model** – create a file per metadata model. This is useful for creating a file based on a model such as a Domain class, Service, or DTO.

> 4. **Custom** – you're on your own on this one. A minimalistic `Registration` class will be created whereby you will need to determine how many instances of that template will be created and from where.

Author: We need to create a GitHub issue to create an article link to here which documents this mode further. It's probably going to be a reference article on Registrations.

### Modeler
The **Modeler** setting determines which _type_ of modeler the metadata should be fetched from for the template. This can be `Domain`, `Services`, `Eventing`, etc. When setting up your Module, the `Intent Module Builder` will automatically add the modeler dependency depending on which `Modeler` you have selected.

### Model Type
The **Model Type** setting specifies the object that you will be working with once the module code has been generated. You can select this Type based on `Types` that Intent Architect has been able to detect. More around this topic can be found [here](xref:IntentArchitectConcepts).

> ### Expose Decorator Contract

Author: ```suggestion
## Additional optional stereotypes

The following stereotypes can be manually applied as needed.

### Exposes Decorator Contract
```

> You might wish to create a Template that exposes an interface for a new Decorator to implement by applying the `Exposes Decorator Contract` Stereotype. The Type Fullname would be the C# Interface/class's full namespace and type name that will be used to allow Decorators to hook into this template.

Author: ```suggestion
If want your Template to be extensible through use of a Decorator, use this to implement by applying this stereotype. 

The `Type Fullname` property is the C# Interface/class's full namespace and type name that will be used to allow Decorators to hook into this template.
```

![Template Decorator Contract](images/TemplateDecoratorContract.png)

## Decorator Settings

> Notice that when you click on a Decorator element in Intent Architect, that it will display these fields:

Author: ```suggestion
## Decorator Stereotypes

### Decorator Settings

By default, the `Decorator Settings` and `Implements Decorator Contract` `[stereotypes](xref:Stereotypes) are added to all decorators created in the Module Builder.
```

If what I said above is true, why have two stereotypes, could the `Implements Decorator Contract` not be on the `Decorator Settings` stereotype?

![Decorator Element](images/DecoratorElement.png)
_Decorator Element_

![Decorator Settings](images/DecoratorSettings.png)
_Decorator Settings_

1. **Declare Usings** - When the Decorator class gets generated, allow the developer to specify the necessary "using" namespaces to be included upon decorator usage.

> 2. **Type Fullname** - Give the FQDN of the desired class/interface that will be used to attach to.

Author: At least once above in this article we must have provided the definition of FQDN, if not, then this should link to it, or alternatively have a format like `FQDN (Fully Qualified D??? Name)`.

> To learn more about Decorators, click [here](xref:Decorator).

Author: ```suggestion
See the [](xref:Decorator) article to learn more about decorators.
```
